---
layout: about
---
<span class="drop-cap">A</span> leader in the 21st century orchestral
landscape, Dr. Matthew Aubin is constantly reaching new audiences through
innovative performance formats and creative initiatives both on and off the
podium.

In his 3rd season as Music Director of the Jackson Symphony Orchestra, Dr.
Aubin also serves as Artistic Director for The Chelsea Symphony in New York
City. In this role he has led highly visible collaborations with partners such
as actor John Lithgow, award-winning television series *Mozart in the Jungle*,
and the *American Museum of Natural History* in New York City. Dr. Aubin has
played a principal role in the initiation and development of The Chelsea
Symphony’s annual competition for emerging composers with high profile
adjudicators such as Conductor Laureate of the *Seattle Symphony* and music
director of the *All-Star Orchestra*, Gerard Schwarz. Dr. Aubin has led TCS in
their Lincoln Center debut and conducted the New York City premieres of works
by Mark O’Connor, Fazil Say and Caroline Shaw, among others. 

As a consultant for the Amazon Prime series *Mozart in the Jungle* created by
Roman Coppola and Jason Schwartzman, Dr. Aubin was the off-camera conductor for
an episode filmed on Rikers Island. Since then, Dr. Aubin has continued a
relationship with the NYC Department of Correction, designing and conducting a
series of concerts and education initiatives for detainees, both in person and
online. He also served as the onstage conductor for the film *Bel Canto* with
Julianne Moore and has been an artistic consultant for the hit television show
*Younger*.

In his role as Music Director of the Jackson Symphony Orchestra, Dr. Aubin has
transformed the orchestra’s visibility, both in the community and on a national
scale. He has collaborated with world-renowned soloists such as pianist Pascal
Rogé, cellist and composer Jeremy Crosmer, cellist Julian Schwarz, and composer
Lowell Liebermann. During Dr. Aubin's time as Music Director, the JSO's season
has expanded, and the organization is now regularly reaching audiences of all
ages through expanded family concerts, education concerts, and the JSO's Music
on Tap series geared towards young adults. During the 2020 pandemic, he
launched a series of digital initiatives, most notably the Random Acts of Music
series. Under Dr. Aubin's leadership, the JSO is releasing a series of
asynchronous, multimedia educational videos to be used in K-12 classrooms.
These videos will be based on the 2021 season's virtual programming and will
explore musical concepts.

Dr. Aubin is the foremost scholar on the French composer Fernande
Breilh-Decruck. He has earned multiple research grants to study her significant
life and work. A champion of the critical role of women in composition, Dr.
Aubin is working to promote Decruck’s newly discovered lost music. He has
edited and created critical editions of her work, which are now in the process
of publication with Gérard Billaudot Éditeur, and has organized performances of
Decruck’s music in the United States and abroad. The 2021-2022 season will
bring a large-scale recording project of Decruck’s orchestral works aimed at
giving orchestras further access and insight into her brilliant work.

Dr. Aubin continues to be active as a freelance horn player, and regularly
performs across the country. A devoted music educator, Dr. Aubin's past
associations include Assistant Professor of Music at Washington State
University, Adjunct faculty at The Hartt School and Educational Programs
Conductor for the Hartford Symphony Orchestra.
